Octave/MATLAB code for analyzing n=2 Lindblad Quantum Control systems
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Author: Darragh Patrick Rooney

An n=2 quantum control system with fast unbounded control can be characterized by the ODE:

dr/dt = b1\*n1+b2\*n2+b3\*n3 - r\* (a1+a2+a3 - a1\*n1^2 - a2\*n2^2 - a3\*n3^2)

The vector (n1,n2,n3) is a unit vector and is our control. It can assume any value on S1. r is real-valued and lies on the interval [0,1].

There are six real parameters a1,a2,a3,b1,b2,b3 obeying the relations:

1. a1 >= a2 >= a3 >= 0

2. sqrt(b1^2/2/a2/a3 + b2^2/2/a3/a1 + b3^2/2/a1/a2) <= 1

This folder contains code with three purposes:

1. finding fM and fm, the maximum and minimum possible values for dr/dt over the interval r in [0,1].

2. locating rcrit, the value of r where the maximum dr/dt crosses from positive to negative (which always exists).

3. Characterizing the dependence of rcrit on the parameters.

### List of .m files:


* `rdot.m`

	This is the main function. For a given sextuple of parameters, it finds fM(r) and fm(r), the maximum and minimum values of dr/dt at r. It also calculates rcrit, the intercept of fm(r). Also calculated are the control functions corresponding to fM and fm. fM and fm are plotted if requested.

* `randA.m` and `randrdot.m`

	`randA.m` calculates a random positive definite matrix with imaginary off-diagonal components. The parameters aj and bj are determined from such a matrix. a1 is normalized to be 100. `randrdot.m` uses `randA.m` to run `rdot` on randomized parameters.

* `bsweep.m`

	This function looks at how rcrit depends on the variation of bj's if the aj's are fixed and the "norm" of b is fixed (i.e. the LHS of constraint 2 which we will call B). Such constraints allow us to plot rcrit wrt "spherical coordinates", since the "iso-B surface" of bj's is S1.

* `asweep.m`

	The plots of rcrit generated by `bsweep.m` have four interesting features:
		
    1. Local minima at (phi,theta) = (pi/2,pi/2) and (pi/2,3pi/2)
		
    2. Saddle points at (phi,theta) = (pi/2,0) and (pi/2,pi)
		
    3. Saddle points at the poles phi = 0, pi.
		
    4. Pairs of maxima at (phi,theta) = (phim,0), (pi-phim,0) and (phim,pi), (pi-phim,pi)
	
	This function fixes B and sweeps over a2 and a3 to calculate p1,p2,p3 (the heights at features 1-3) as well as p4 = phim. The height of the maxima always appears to equal B, so we don't bother to calculate it.

* `wsweep.m`

	The ODE above can be re-written dr/dt = ( w12 - w21) - r ( w12 + w21) where w12 and w21 are functions of n1, n2 and n3. These functions are derived from the specific GKS matrix of the system. `wsweep.m` calculates a random GKS matrix and then parametrically plots w12 and w21 as n1, n2 and n3 vary across S1. Some pretty plots can be generated from this function.

* `find_sources.m`

	Searches for alternate threads that don't start at the completely mixed state. 60% or so of systems don't have one, but the rest have one or two. Involves solving a degree-six polynomial.

* `source_survey.m`

	Surveys a given number of randomized systems looking for alternate threads. Meant to find frequencies. Results: ~60% have none, ~30% have one, ~10% have two.

### Examples folder:

Examples of the plots for `rdot.m`, `bsweep.m`, `asweep.m` and `wsweep.m` are included. The specific parameters that gave these plots are stored in the text file `Example_parameters.txt`.
